[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>ALAN GREEN: In this episode,
we're going to be looking
at a very specific
wrong page number--
the last one in the folio.
We've barely been
able to scratch
the surface of those
so-called wrong numbers in it,
but there are 67 such instances.
And every single one
of them tells a story
or connects a certain
part of one play
to another play
seemingly unrelated.
As we're about to see, the
codes at the end of "Cymbeline"
connect to a specific
line in "Hamlet" that
has baffled scholars for as long
as they've been studying him.
I am but mad.
[JINGLES]
North-north-west.
"Cymbeline" tells the story
of uniting Rome and England
at the end of a fictional war.
There's so much going on in the
play it's impossible and not
relevant here to cover it all.
Scholars far more knowledgeable
about the intricacies
of the plot than
myself have noted there
are 24 denouements in
the last scene alone.
So it can appear a
bit of a pat ending.
Amazingly, though,
he's pulling on threads
from several different plays
and weaving them together
into a magnificent tapestry
that needs to be viewed
through a different lens.
It's an art form
we've never suspected
and the world has
never seen before.
And beyond that,
he's using these
until now unrecognized
interconnections
to tell a much broader
story outside of the context
of the various plays
he's drawing from.
The bigger mystery
of who's actually
behind these masterworks.
And as usual, the
most significant clues
to the greater puzzle are given
to a seemingly insignificant
character known only
as the Soothsayer.
Interestingly, he or
she has had two visions,
each delivering essentially
the same information.
Yet she interprets them in
completely opposite ways
at two different
stages in the plot.
It's really emblematic of the
Shakespeare mystery, isn't it?
So the author gives
her only a couple
of speeches in the whole drama.
But he really makes them pay off
by highlighting certain words
with key capital letters.
Let's go to the
altar, take a look.
In the first of these
visions, the Soothsayer
says, "Jove's bird,
the Roman eagle.
From South to the West."
But then in the second vision,
she says battle at this instant
is full accomplished
for the Roman Eagle
from South to West in the West.
Now in King Cymbeline's
final speech,
the very last paragraph
of the play is he says,
"From our blest altars, publish
we this," and his last sentence
is exactly 100 characters, which
produces a perfect grid of 10
by 10, the divine
number squared.
We're being reminded
to recognize
the importance of
Dee's mathoetic system,
in which the center
letters are i, d, b, e.
Simple and straightforward.
According to Freud, the id
is the primary component
of personality.
The essential self.
It comes from its
original Latin,
meaning "id" equals "this."
"Be" is self-explanatory.
It means, "is."
So it's the same as
saying "this is."
Or an impersonal
version of "I am."
Expanding by only one
letter away from the center,
we find the very
same capital letters
that were highlighted
in both the Soothsayer's
final speeches--
i, b, r, e.
Jove's bird and Roman eagle.
Remember, the
letters i and j are
interchangeable in the
Renaissance alphabet.
But the line starts with
the seemingly innocuous
observation, "I saw."
And that's significant because
a saw in Shakespeare's usage
is a wise saying,
a sacred truth.
As he says in Henry VI,
"holy saws of sacred writ."
It's exactly the job description
of a soothsayer, a truthteller,
to foresee a sacred truth.
In other words, a
holy prediction.
It's all encapsulated in the
powerful vision she had twice
of this symbolic
bird, the eagle,
to which she assigned two
contrasting interpretations.
But of course, we're now well
aware, this is not a mistake.
In the context of the play,
the eagle represents the mighty
army of Caesar's.
But as a visionary
symbol, it has far deeper
meaning, having been
almost universally adopted
to represent not only military
power, but the discernment
to use it, tempered with wisdom.
As such, it has been the
symbol of the Knights Templar,
the Freemasons,
the Rosicrucians,
the Egyptian mystery schools,
and of course, America, which
was just beginning to be
founded by the same groups
at the center of this
Shakespeare movement.
In other words, the
eagle symbol has
been ubiquitous in all
the major secret societies
throughout history.
But amongst these secret
initiatory groups,
there's a double meaning hinted
at by these four letters-- i,
r, e, b.
First, the spiritual aspect
we've already touched on
rooted in why Oxford
is linking his identity
to the Egyptian myth of Horus.
You see, the moment Set looks
out Horus' left eye, the moon,
Horus assumes his aspect
as Ra or Re-Horakhty.
The right eye of the sun.
And the two remaining letters
form the companion word to Re,
"ib."
The heart, represented
by the scarab beetle that
pushes the ball of the
sun to rise every morning,
forming the crown of Re.
Isn't that a wonderful analogy?
It takes heart in
the morning to drive
us to be productive
through the heat of the day
through our action.
But if we revolve those
letters, the spiritual message
rises to a whole other level.
This is typical John
Dee and extremely deep.
E, R, and B, I.
Elizabeth Regina,
and the cunningly
deceptive initials
of Ben Jonson that really
stand for the twin pillars
of Solomon's Temple,
Boaz and Jachin.
We're going to have to look at
Dee's brilliantly coded grid
construction of Shakespeare's
gravestone again,
where we see ST, ST, ST,
standing for Solomon's Temple
three times.
But they also contain
their own hidden meanings.
TTT is the Freemasons'
acronym for the Triple Tau,
the Holy of Holies, the D'Vir.
SSS is their acronym
for Stiletto Siddesh
Solo, the residence of
the Lord in creation.
The Ark of the Covenant.
The pillars, too, have sun
and moon characteristics.
RE, the sun pillar, is
connected through the middle
to the central ST. Its
opposite, ER, the moon pillar,
that's the goddess Diana,
Queen Elizabeth again.
Thus we see the TH
connected to it,
the divine right of kings
aspect of the I am that I am.
It's all there.
The most perfect visual code.
All of which is leading us
to examine the very first
statement in the First Folio.
Because once again, he's guiding
us towards this connection.
The first connects to the last.
Just like Oxford's
crown signature,
just like the entire 30
years plan of all his works,
the Alpha Omega System.
Just like the very first
code we ever encountered,
aleph becomes tav,
is everywhere.
Again, it's very repetitive.
But it's only this kind of
redundant attention to detail
that can prove mathematically
what Shakespeare knew he cannot
prove poetically.
Here's the very first
statement to the reader.
Look at the tilted
small case letter e.
It just looks like
a mistake, right?
The letter was sloppily
placed on the press, maybe.
Well, you only have to look
at the block-ish design
and depth of the
Gutenberg type pieces
and how they were busted
up against each other
in rigid formation to
realize a letter tilted
at an angle of 10 degrees
like that was impossible.
It just could not be a mistake.
It would require the making
of a special type piece.
Just as we saw with the
reversed R in the last episode.
And they were made from an alloy
of lead, tin, and antimony.
So strong and durable,
they remained the standard
for 550 years.
So they didn't wear out.
They couldn't be
slanting like that.
This is intentional.
And they would have had to have
made another special character.
A lot of work.
So what is it saying?
Watch carefully.
"I will find where truth is hid.
Though it were hidden
deep within the center."
Perfect, pure mirror
image of eRe or decoded,
ER and RE, right
in the very center.
Is Regina, ER, or Rex, RE.
So he is reversed, Rex Edward.
Visually, he's being pushed out
of the way with that slanted e.
The message is clear.
There's not room enough
for both of them.
And it was famously uttered
by the Queen herself.
"I will have one mistress
here and no master.
No man shall rule over me."
So we have the
exact same message
in the very first thing
we see in the folio
as is in the very last 100
characters of "Cymbeline."
ER, the queen, cannot
allow RE, the king.
And they're showing us
two portals to this truth.
The very pillars
one passes through
to enter Solomon's Temple,
Boaz Jachin, to reach--
where?
The Holy of Holies.
The de Vere.
And these are the
very same portals
one passes through to
enter into the truth
of these sacred writings in
the First Folio, de Vere.
The portals are the
letters ER and BI.
And what word do
they themselves,
by revolving om, bier.
An old middle English
word meaning "a framework
for carrying a
corpse or coffin."
The absolute clarity
of meaning is stunning.
It perfectly describes
the dilemma of Oxford
and the Queen's doomed romance.
Love that cannot survive.
And these works through
which he's pouring out
every emotion humans are
privy to and prisoners of,
his entire--
I have to say it,
his entire corpus.
His body of work
are exactly that.
A framework for carrying
the corpse of their love.
It's the impossible
imbalance between Elizabeth's
personal life and her
political obligations.
She had to totally deny
any natural passions,
especially true love in
order to protect her country
and her subjects from attack.
She was basically
trapped by her job.
Elizabeth had to be publicly
the Virgin Queen and seemingly
available to give her would-be
European royal suitors
hope of religious
reconciliation without having
to resort to military conflict.
Which, of course, the
Spanish ultimately
did anyway, unsuccessfully.
The war Elizabeth was
constantly having to manage
was the religious one between
the Catholics, Rome, Italy,
and the Protestants,
London, England.
But that's just the
outer metaphorical code
that Shakespeare has set
up as the curtain raiser.
Now Dee gets to weigh in.
And between them, they turn
those last 100 characters
into--
I don't know what to
call it sometimes.
A symphony of letters
mathematically
placed to reveal
even deeper meanings.
And as you watch
the magic unfold,
try to imagine the inconceivable
task of constructing this
from scratch with
nothing but an empty 10
by 10 grid in front of you.
We've already seen what
the very center has to be--
I, D, B, E. And as near
to the center as possible,
he's placed this platform
shape of three supporting one,
like the initiatory
steps of Freemasonry.
Now just watch.
As Dee secures the center of his
construction with two perfectly
balanced tau crosses facing
each other horizontally.
What do they say?
JD.
In his favorite number
seven formation,
balanced upper and lower.
And a code.
Of course.
He's literally signing
this in the center.
A John Dee code.
Two more balanced oppositional
crosses appear on the right.
The top portion is a
perfectly constructed trinity
of the Soothsayer's message,
"I saw," "I saw," "I saw."
Beneath it, another
OOD signature, again,
perfectly balanced.
And now the connection to
the Soothsayer's vision
begins to materialize.
South-west-west.
Recall that she said she
saw Imperial Caesar's Roman
eagle fly from the south in
Rome to radiant "Cymbeline,"
England's king, in the West.
They had to have
worked really hard
to make every detail
of this perfect.
Especially the part where the
geography is entirely wrong.
From Italy, Rome, in the South.
OK.
Well maybe, if you're
heading to Sweden.
But to England?
London in the West?
I don't know.
It's more Northwest, isn't it?
In fact, let's be as
accurate as we know Dee is.
Technically it's
North-North-West.
Well, here's that crazy
line uttered by Hamlet
feigning madness.
"I am but mad.
North-North-West."
And remember that clue from
"Cymbeline's" last paragraph,
"from our blest altars
publish we this."
I can't explain why
my intuition can
penetrate to the heart of
these Shakespeare codes.
But I do know when I look
at 17 characters in a row
and they jump out at me in this
very awkwardly worded phrase
where the King is
saying, hey, let's
publish the news of this piece
from our blest altars, plural--
notice.
"To all our subjects
set we forward."
Come on.
I think if you
weren't constrained
by having to write a code,
you could do better than that,
couldn't you, Ed?
But of course, it's an anagram.
West-South-West Stratford.
Or better yet, Oxford's
crown code hidden
within his own signature.
It says See W.W,
colon, Stratford.
Even the punctuation is perfect.
In which case, the awful
North-North-West geographical
mistake is, in fact, a perfect
set of directions to where we
actually have to go--
to Stratford, to find
out the truth about WW
and the de Vere altar buried
beneath the Richard Hill altar.
Plural, right.
Blessed altars.
Note the two
different spellings.
One L and then two L's.
LLL is another enormous
clue from another play,
"Love's Labor's Lost,"
that we don't have time
to get into here,
which is showing you
how they're all connected.
His tomb was erected in
1593, the very year William
Shakespeare's name burst onto
the scene for the first time
in "Venus and Adonis."
Yet the hidden de Vere altar
under Richard Hill's altar
wasn't rediscovered until almost
three centuries later, 1889.
They hid it well.
But also somewhere
where they knew
it would inevitably be
found, because, hey,
flagstones eventually wear out.
Very slowly.
Placed in the exact
location we see it in today
by Freemasons who
obviously knew some very
esoteric circumference-based
geometry that ends up
pointing back to itself.
Or to where it had been
hiding all that time.
The only possible reason for
such mathematical gymnastics
must have been to show
other initiates the mirror
imagery of
mathematics and poetry
underpinning this entire
alchemical structure.
The only possible reason.
That is unless it's actually
a portal of some kind.
And at this stage, honestly,
I wouldn't rule anything out.
But let's move
on, because once I
saw that its location is
precisely West-South-West
of where the altar
is today, I realized
this can only be the work
of self-realized beings.
If this is all so that we, you
and me, we little humanoids,
this whole magnum opus
has been created for,
if we get to see who
WW is in Stratford,
then the Soothsayer
is clearly saying
she saw three sacred
predictions in her vision.
Not in the play "Cymbeline,"
but in the play within the play.
That's what she's
pointing us to.
And they're obviously connected
to the most famous play
within the play, "Hamlet."
Because, well, let's look
at the rest of what Hamlet
says in his truly crazy line.
He actually says, "I am but mad.
North-North-West.
When the Wind is Southerly, I
know a hawk from a handsaw."
Any questions?
What a great theatrical
device madness is.
You can have your hero say
anything that's really a code,
and the audience
ignores how crazy
it is because, hey, he's crazy.
So look at the capital
letters in that--
N, N, W, W, S. But it's a code.
So we revolve it from SW.
Then he adds another W,
and we get West-South-West.
So what's handsaw about?
Anyone got a handsaw?
Here's a handsaw.
Perfectly embedded in
another horizontal cross
that slips into
the other crosses
without disturbing
a single letter.
What's left?
ER.
Or is it RE?
Or is it all another brilliant
combination, handsaw, as in
hand, sacred truth, which
was a real thing back
then called handfasting.
There's a theory that
the Queen and Oxford
had an affair from 1572 to '74.
During that time, we know that
they had three private visits
with the Archbishop
of Canterbury,
the only person in
the church permitted
to marry the sovereign.
In those days, a private
betrothal ceremony
with an exchange of
rings, called handfasting,
was as legally binding as
a public church wedding.
And if a child was
on the way, it's
almost inevitable
they would have
had to pledge
their love this way
in order to legalize their
offspring in preparation
for the day when
Elizabeth would eventually
need to name a successor.
If that's the case,
handsaw would indeed
be a way of indicating
such a secret marriage.
But it's not conclusive
unless there's a covert reason
for comparing it to a hawke.
Which seems on the surface
utterly nonsensical.
Until we realize it's
an anagram of Hew Ka.
See, there's a prominent clue
at the very end of the Sonnets
that's never been understood
by mainstream scholars.
What are these large
letters, KA, doing here?
Well the A is the catchword,
because the first word
on the next page is the A
of "A Lover's Complaint."
But it's been printed
far larger and raised
far higher than it
should be in order
to be unnecessarily prominent.
What's the K?
This is another device
used by the printers
for the same purpose of helping
collate the pages correctly.
They're grouped into batches,
each marked by a letter.
There's only one
problem, though.
The letter for this
batch should be I.
But it's been deliberately
printed incorrectly as K
and made far larger and higher
than it should be in order
to make the Egyptian
word, Ka, used
to denote one of
the five attributes
of the deceased Pharaoh King--
Ba, Ib, Ka, Ren, Shute.
Ka means-- drumroll, please--
the spirit double of the King.
So Hew Ka is the
very last message
of the end of the Sonnets,
the King's double.
And Hew, cut into stone.
The answer to the King's double
is inside the altar stone,
which I have hewn.
And you'll find it in the
West-South-West cross aisle,
by the way.
So that's prediction number one.
Another two perfectly balanced
crosses intersect here.
Vere.
E of O is playing two roles.
It's cross revolved.
And just in case we're not
totally convinced yet--
I, Edward.
That's prediction number two.
Now another two perfect
crosses intersect.
De Vere's altar.
Or de Vere altars, plural.
Remember "Cymbeline's"
curious announcement?
Plural altars.
And finally at the
top, Veres sealed it.
Well, yes, of course they did.
When we turn over the
engraving page of the folio,
the first thing we see is
a dedication to the two
most noble and incomparable
pair of brethren-- brethren
is the term for initiated
members of Freemasonic temples.
The first is William,
3rd Earl of Pembroke.
The second is Philip,
fourth Earl of Pembroke.
William was engaged
to Bridget de Vere,
Oxford's second daughter.
Philip was married to Susan de
Vere, Oxford's third daughter.
So look at that.
The First Folio is dedicated
to the whole de Vere family.
So yeah, no doubt de Veres
did seal the de Vere altar
stone when it finally
was ready to be buried
under Richard Hill's altar.
Prediction number three.
And they probably
used a handsaw.
I know.
It's almost too much.
But remember, it's
the redundancy.
It's intentional.
Because the proof is in
the magic of the math.
So to balance the very
last words in the folio,
Dee makes the very first words
be a perfect 17 by 17 grid.
I'm just saying.
And when we see it lined up,
EO Vere, TH, TH, altars--
Triple Tau altars.
That's the vertical
line and then
horizontally,
West-South-West cross aisle.
And then you add In Hills,
Signed, of course,
by our guy, OOD.
I rest my case.
The next episode, 007, will
be a class in how to decrypt
a suspected code using
everything we've learned so far
and tying together as many
of these strands as possible
so as to get a clear picture of
why Shakespeare is relentlessly
leading us to perhaps the
biggest question of all,
to be or not to be king?
Obviously, history
records that Elizabeth
died without naming an heir.
But history, as we know,
is written by the winners.
Or in this case, those who
retain power during a monarch's
transition of succession.
And that was Robert Cecil, de
Vere's almost lifelong nemesis.
How will their final
crossing of swords work out?